# eGemi
An egui browser for Gemini Text ("Gemtext") files.

eGemi's main differentiator from other Gemini browsers is that it can also read gemtext from HTTP!

## Features
* Can read gemtext over HTTP(S) as well as Gemini protocol.
* Sends HTTP Accept headers requesting text/gemtext, text/markdown, and text/plain.
* Single executable you can launch from the CLI.
* Self-contained Rust application you can `cargo build` and `run` yourself.
* Emoji! ðŸŽ‰
* CJK support: æ—¥æœ¬èªž, í•œêµ­ì–´, ç®€ä½“ä¸­æ–‡, ç¹é«”ä¸­æ–‡

## Intentionally Missing Features
While using HTTP, we can maintain some of the benefits of using Gemini Protocol by not implementing the parts of HTTP that are abused:
* HTTP Cookies (No tracking)
* JavaScript (No popups)
* Loading secondary resources on a page, like CSS, Images, fonts, etc. (No tracking pixels, or cross-site cookies.)
* Automatic redirects (makes attempted click tracking obvious.)

## Upcoming Features
* Allow browsing local gemtext files.
* A reload button! ðŸ”ƒ ðŸ˜…
* Read a local bookmarks.gmi or home.gmi for quick access to common sites.

## Possible Future Features
* Multiple browser tabs.
* Render a safe subset of Markdown. (Currently gets parsed/rendered as Gemtext. YMMV.)
* Options for Gemtext rendering. (ex: show more/less native syntax.) 
* Nicer and/or customizable themes. Maybe per-domain. Right now, we've got egui's built-in light/dark themes.
* Caching (likely only in-memory.) 
* Rendering of simple HTML. (think: "Reader" mode from iOS Safari.)
* RSS/(/gemlog/twtxt?) support.

### See:
=> browser+https://github.com/nfnitloop/egemi @nfnitloop/egemi on GitHub
=> gemini://geminiprotocol.net/

### Author Links:
=> https://nfnitloop.com
=> https://www.nfnitloop.com/blog/2025/06/project-gemini/ Thoughts on Project Gemini (Blog Post)
=> https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NfNitLoop/gemi/refs/heads/main/README.md Gemi (Serve Gemtext via HTTP(S))
